title My Skills
contents I have been using Python now since my undergraduate degree almost 5 years ago. Initially I used it mainly for data handling and processing tasks. But since starting my MSc and working at Informed Solutions I have been using it for many different tasks. /n For example, I have created this webpage using Flask, allowing me to create an API that I can create posts, save them to a database,and then serve up to the user. I have also built a similar application, but using Django for my own personal project. For tha Django application, I have also been experimenting with Docker to containerise the application and allow it to be built into an AWS EC2 environment using a Jenkins pipeline. /n Additionally, I have extensive experience of undertaking scripting tasks in Python and designing, creating and analysing large spatial datasets. For example, during my MSc independent research project, I created a deep learning network for classifying building footprints from satellite imagery. I did this using PyTorch, which is a Python library built on top of Numpy. I also had to create a series of bash scripts to submit my programme to a processing queue in the University of Edinburgh’s high performance computing cluster, as I was processing ~1Tb of Very High Resolution Imagery. I documented the whole process, which allowed me to build additional experience in writing technical systems specification documentation. I then visualised the data using Pandas data frames, again within Python, and linked my visualisation up to my research project which was written in a LaTeX editor. /n I also have extensive professional experience using SQL, PostgreSQL and PostGIS. For example, in my current role I am working on a web-mapping project with a server-side application to upload geospatial boundary data and related information, and a client side for viewing that data online. The application uses a plug-in for ArcMap to view and upload new boundary shape files to the AWS RDS instance. The data is stored in a PostgreSQL database with a PostGIS extension. This data is then queried and displayed on the client-side using geoserver to host the mapping layers. I am responsible for upgrading the software stack from Ubuntu 14.04 to Ubuntu 18.04 and the newest versions of Apache, PHP, Java and Geoserver. As a result of this, I am confident in configuring PostgreSQL databases, querying large spatial datasets, and displaying that data in an online mapping service. /n Furthermore, while working at Global Surface Intelligence, my role as remote sensing engineer required me to create, transform and analyse shapefiles. These were originally extreme large raster spatial datasets, and therefore is a key example of my ability to understand how to design, create and analyse large spatial datasets. A combination of LiDAR data, open-sourced satellite imagery and a Random Forest model were used to predict forest tree species and resulted in a Raster. I then needed to experiment with a wide range of technologies and solutions to enable this data to be displayed in the client’s web portal. I experimented with Ogr2ogr, Geopandas, GDAL, Rasterio, until I came across the right combination of tools that could extract, analyse and display the relevant information. /n Alongside my technical skills, my academic and professional experiences have equipped me with the excellent communication and written skills needed to excel in this role. I have produced several pieces of technical documentation that is in line with standard operating procedures and aligns with industry best practices.